# Data Modeling with Postgres
In this project, I applied what I've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. I defined fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and wrote an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

## How To Run It
Make sure to have docker installed on your machine. [Docker Installation Guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

### Jupyter Container
```python
docker run -it -v "${pwd}:/home/jovyan/work" -p 8888:8888 jupyter/pyspark-notebook
```

### Postgres Container
Create Postgres container and connect it to the Juypeter Container's network
```python
docker run --net container:CONTAINER_ID -e POSTGRES_DB=studentdb -e POSTGRES_USER=student -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=student -d postgres
```
`CONTAINER_ID` is the jupyter container's id and can be found using the following command
```python
docker ps
```

## Project Structure
### Datasets

#### Song Dataset
The dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

#### Log Dataset
The dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

### Files
- `test.ipynb` displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
- `create_tables.py` drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset the tables before each time you run the ETL scripts.
- `etl.ipynb` reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into the tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
- `etl.py` reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into the tables.
- `sql_queries.py` contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
- `README.md` provides discussion on this project.